Document MQTT Select (#18290)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/select.mqtt.markdown

---
title: "MQTT Select"
description: "Instructions on how to interact with a device exposing a Select through MQTT from within Home Assistant."
ha_category:
  - Select
ha_release: 2021.7
ha_iot_class: Configurable
ha_domain: mqtt
---

> The `mqtt` Select platform allows you to integrate devices that might expose configuration options through MQTT into Home Assistant as a Select. Every time a message under the `topic` in the configuration is received, the select entity will be updated in Home Assisant and vice-versa, keeping the device and Home Assistant in-sync.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `mqtt` Select platform allows you to integrate devices that might expose configuration options through MQTT into Home Assistant as a Select. Every time a message under the `topic` in the configuration is received, the select entity will be updated in Home Assistant and vice-versa, keeping the device and Home Assistant in sync.
```

## Configuration

To enable MQTT Select in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry

> select:
>     - platform: mqtt,
>       command_topic: topic,
>       name: "Test Select",
>       options": ["Option 1", "Option 2"],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
select:
    - platform: mqtt
      command_topic: topic
      name: "Test Select"
      options:
      	- "Option 1"
      	- "Option 2"
```

      required: false
      type: string
enabled_by_default:
  description: Flag which defines if the entity should be enabled when first added.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: true
icon:
  description: "[Icon](/docs/configuration/customizing-devices/#icon) for the entity."
  required: false
  type: icon
json_attributes_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to extract the JSON dictionary from messages received on the `json_attributes_topic`."
  required: false
  type: template
json_attributes_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive a JSON dictionary payload and then set as entity attributes. Implies `force_update` of the current select state when a message is received on this topic.
  required: false
  type: string
name:
  description: The name of the Select.
  required: false
  type: string
optimistic:
  description: Flag that defines if the select works in optimistic mode.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: "`true` if no `state_topic` defined, else `false`."
options:

>   description: List ov options which can be selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: List of options that can be selected.
```

  required: true
  type: list
qos:
  description: The maximum QoS level of the state topic. Default is 0 and will also be used to publishing messages.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 0
retain:
  description: If the published message should have the retain flag on or not.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: false
state_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive update of the selected option.
  required: false
  type: string

> step:
>   description: Step value. Smallest value `0.001`.
>   required: false
>   type: float
>   default: 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
